Colorless
The colorless mana symbol
In Magic: The Gathering, colorless has two in-game meanings. It is either a type of objects or a type of mana. Note that colorless is not a color, and is not represented in the color wheel.[1]

An object (a card or spell) with no colored mana symbols in their mana costs is colorless. Lands, having no mana costs, are always colorless by default, with the sole exception of the color-indicated. Artifacts are the most common colorless spell, and Eldrazi creatures were made colorless to mark them as alien, with multiple associated noncreature spells. Karn and Ugin are colorless planeswalkers. In Strixhaven: School of Mages, several colorless Sorceries were printed as first-year introduction spells, in contrast to the colored school faculties.

Colorless gets access to pretty much everything, but at inefficient mana costs. For example, the destruction of permanents costs a minimum of {7}.[2][3]

Devoid is a characteristic-defining keyword ability that states that a card is colorless, regardless of the colors in that card's mana cost. All devoid cards are from Battle for Zendikar block and Modern Horizons 3.

Colorless cards come before colored cards in collector number, in contrast to artifacts and lands, which are numbered at the end of the set. Colorless cards which aren't artifacts or lands feature a transparent frame, allowing the art to run all the way to the border.

Colorless mana ({C}) has no color.

The idea of colorless mana was already introduced in Alpha with Basalt Monolith, Mana Vault, and Sol Ring.[4] It set the premise that most mana comes in one of the five colors (white, blue, black, red, or green), but there is a sixth subset of mana that is not any color. This mana could only be used to pay for costs that don't require color (for example artifacts).

In early sets, the text for Sol Ring was still spelled out as "Add 2 colorless mana to your mana pool". However, from Onslaught onwards, this was officially changed for editing reasons to "Add {2} to your mana pool".[5]

The cost of many cards includes generic mana (e.g., {1}, {2}), meaning that a player can use that number of any mana (colored or colorless) to pay for it. Though one can use colorless mana to pay for generic mana costs, they are not the same thing. Generic is a type of cost, whereas colorless is a type of mana; a player cannot produce generic mana and, originally, there were no colorless costs. The latter changed with Oath of the Gatewatch.[6]

R&D concluded that they had to stop using the mana circle with a number to represent both generic and colorless mana. Changing the representation of colorless mana was easier, as it's represented far less, so they decided to make the new mana symbol {C} that represents one colorless mana.[7] In our example the text for Sol Ring now is "Add {C}{C}". One of the consequences of introducing a colorless mana symbol was the change to over 300 cards in Oracle, the central database of official card wordings.[8]

While adding colorless mana to your mana pool is an evergreen mechanic, colorless mana costs are not.[9] Mana costs that can only be paid with colorless mana were first introduced in Oath of the Gatewatch and have only appeared since (outside of reprints) in the Eldrazi Unbound Commander Masters deck and in Modern Horizons 3.[10]

In the vision design of The Brothers' War, R&D did spend some time talking about whether they wanted to use colorless mana as a cost (similar to Oath of the Gatewatch). They even went so far as to explore the idea of having fifteen draft archetypes with colorless mana filling the role of a sixth "color." In the end, it just didn't feel right.[11]

From the Comprehensive Rules (November 14, 2025—[[Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles]])

107.4c The colorless mana symbol {C} is used to represent one colorless mana, and also to represent a cost that can be paid only with one colorless mana.
From the Comprehensive Rules (November 14, 2025—[[Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles]])

106.10. If an effect would add mana represented by a generic mana symbol to a player’s mana pool, that much colorless mana is added to that player’s mana pool.
From the Comprehensive Rules (November 14, 2025—[[Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles]])

202.2b Objects with no colored mana symbols in their mana costs are colorless.
From the glossary of the Comprehensive Rules (November 14, 2025—[[Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles]])

Colorless
1. An object with no color is colorless. Colorless is not a color. See rule 105, “Colors,” and rule 202, “Mana Cost and Color.”
2. A type of mana. See rule 106, “Mana,” and rule 107.4c.


Oath of the Gatewatch Mechanics
The battle for Zendikar … well, could have gone better, in all honesty. What was one massive Eldrazi titan destroying everything is now two. Hi, Kozilek. Long time, no see. Ob Nixilis has his spark back and isn't happy. It's time to regroup and take a stand. Oath of the Gatewatch introduces new cards, new abilities, and new strategies to improve your current decks or make new ones. Let's take a look.

The Colorless Mana Symbol
Battle for Zendikar had a strong colorless theme, thanks in part to the devoid ability. Being colorless mattered in a variety of ways. In Oath of the Gatewatch, the Eldrazi take it one step further. Introducing the colorless mana symbol.



To cast Spatial Contortion, you pay two mana: one generic (that's the ) and one colorless (that's the ). The generic mana cost can be paid with any type of mana—that means any color or colorless. But the  is different. That can be paid only with colorless mana. There have been plenty of nonbasic lands over the years that produced colorless mana. This set gives you a more … ubiquitous way of doing it.


Wastes (OGW)
Wastes is a new basic land that taps to add  to your mana pool. Notably, it doesn't have any land types. So if an effect instructs you to choose a basic land type, you can't choose Wastes. Cards like Dream Thrush and Coalition Victory don't change at all. Wastes is basic, so you can have as many of them as you want in your Constructed deck, including your colorless Commander decks. Hooray!

In Limited events, you can play Wastes only if it's in your card pool. For Sealed Deck, that means you have to open a Wastes in order to play with it. In Booster Draft, you have to draft Wastes. Figuring out exactly how to pay those  costs will be a priority in this set. (But don't worry—Wastes isn't the only way.) You can't just add as many Wastes as you want while building your deck like you can with the other basic lands.

The symbol  will be used going forward to represent one colorless mana. The numerical and variable mana symbols (, , and so on, including ) will still be used, but only to represent costs that can be paid with any type of mana. Before, the symbol  was overloaded, and this was confusing to some players. Check this out:

The  in the first ability and the  in the last ability actually mean different things. On the same card! I know! So the new system will approach the mana symbols in a slightly more logical way. Where you used to see "Add  to your mana pool," you'll now see "Add  to your mana pool." To illustrate this, I give you an Oath of the Gatewatch reprint, Unknown Shores.



You'll see this change with the Eldrazi Scions in this set. We'll also be changing the Oracle text of previous cards so they say things like "Add  to your mana pool" as well. I'm kind of out of interesting information, but I do have another preview card for you. So here's that!


Scion Summoner (OGW)
Cohort
The Allies are still a force to be reckoned with, fighting valiantly for the safety of their world. Cohort abilities require two Allies to work together.


Munda's Vanguard (OGW)
The cost of each cohort ability is the same. The effects differ wildly, so make sure you read each one carefully. Because the cost includes , the Ally that has the cohort ability has to have been under your control since your most recent turn began. Colloquially, it can't have "summoning sickness." But the other Ally, the "an untapped Ally you control," could be one you just cast. So if I start my turn controlling Munda's Vanguard, I could cast another Ally, and then tap them both to activate the cohort ability of Munda's Vanguard.

Support
No one fights the Eldrazi alone. We all need a little support now and then. Support is a new keyword action that boosts your (or your teammates') creatures.


Shoulder to Shoulder (OGW)
"Support N" means "Put a +1/+1 counter on each of up to N target creatures." In many cases, you'll choose two creatures as you cast Shoulder to Shoulder. But it's okay to choose fewer targets. If you control only one creature, it's fine to cast Shoulder to Shoulder targeting it to give it a +1/+1 counter. In fact, you can cast Shoulder to Shoulder with no targets just to draw a card. It may not be the best use of it, but in the fight against the Eldrazi, sometimes you do what you have to do.


Gladehart Cavalry (OGW)
If a creature (or any other permanent) has an ability that supports, there's a slight twist: the ability can't target the creature itself. You may notice that the reminder text on Gladehart Cavalry says "other target creatures." So if there are no other creatures at the moment Gladehart Cavalry enters the battlefield, the support ability just won't do anything. Remember that it's one +1/+1 counter per target. You can't pile up all six counters on the same creature.

Surge
To win this battle, it's important that we capitalize on momentum. Surge is a new ability that lets you cast spells for an alternative cost if you—or a teammate—have already cast a spell during the turn.


Comparative Analysis (OGW)
You qualify for the surge cost no matter what happened to that other spell. It could have resolved. It could have been countered. Maybe it's still on the stack! For example, you can cast one spell and then cast Comparative Analysis in response and you'll pay  for it.

On some cards, surge is just a nice mana discount. But on others, surge brings you not only mana savings but additional effects!


Tyrant of Valakut (OGW)
That 3 damage might be a great reason to chain spells together if you can. Remember that you can pay the surge cost only if you're casting it as a spell. If you find a way to put Tyrant of Valakut onto the battlefield without casting it, there's no way to pay its surge cost.

One question you might have is "What is a teammate?" That's kind of a sad question, but okay. The most popular team format is probably Two-Headed Giant. You may also be on a team facing a dastardly Archenemy. Unfortunately, you don't have teammates in multiplayer formats like Commander, even if you decide to "team up" with another player until your sudden but inevitable betrayal. (Oh, come on. We all saw it coming.)